>> Ben Hong: Those who are taking
the Vue through fundamentals.
I think the first time I covered Pinia,
we talked about options.
And so I just need to do a quick overview
on the Composition stores now that we
are all on the same page regarding
composable APIs and kind of how they work.
So the technique here is basically
called composition or setup stores.
I explicitly left the task store in
here because, as you can see here,
this is an example of an option store.
And so this is actually useful context for
those,
especially if you were
always pure composition API.
You came into Vue 3.
It's neat, as I've taught workshops over
the years, to see the audience change from
I've never used Composition API to people
now saying I've never used Options API.
Things have changed.
It's wild.
For those of you who have been pure
Composition API, this was the elegance of
the Options API in the sense that
you knew exactly where to put stuff.
State goes inside of this state.
Key getters, which are essentially
computed, go inside of getters, and
then your actions were essentially
your methods or your functions.
So that was basically all it was.
That is one of the elements of the Options
API, and one of the reasons it was so
popular is because it allowed people who
might not be as savvy from the JavaScript
perspective to still come in and
be to contribute to the code base.
So I think one of my stories I always like
to share is that I was teaching a workshop
introductory to Vue.
I was back in Vue 2, it's not Vue 3 yet,
and there was a designer who told me she
almost didn't come to the workshop at all
because she'd only been doing, HTML and
CSS for most of her coding, and
she hadn't done that for years.
And so she thought she was going to be
completely way out of her depth, but
she decided to stick it out.
And the workshop was, I think,
about two hours, and by the end of it,
she had a functioning VUE app and was
able to understand the basics of, like,
you know, updating the state and whatnot.
And it wasn't incredibly complicated, but
I think the fact that she
was able to do so speaks to.
I mean, that is the power of standards and
having people being able
to follow those things.
Any cautionary tale.
I love Composition API.
I love how flexible it is.
But we do have to remember that we
still want to try to keep our code as
maintainable, scalable,
as humanly possible, so
that it is still accessible as much
as humanly possible to our users.
When we can here basically
what a setup sort is.
Instead of just saying hey look,
we're going to have this defined store
that's an object, that is the options.
It basically just says hey look, we're
going to have this defined store that has
this key and this time we're going to have
a function that returns a bunch of stuff.
For example all this state.
So just to keep it easy,
I'm going to delete this.
This is state.
All this stuff in here
just becomes variable.
Do 1, 2 const 1, 2 this.
All of your getters.
Actually let me do this first.
Sorry.
Import ref.
I'm just going to grab
computer while I'm at it.
So ustorage is already done here, so
I'm just going to leave that alone.
So people have that to differentiate
that it really doesn't look as.
Can I wrap this whole thing?
Apparently I can.
Okay, then all of our getters here
which are essentially computed.
So these are ref or reactive, your choice.
Generally I recommend ref because
it's just a bit more stable.
And then so we have one, two looks like.
Okay, I'll just focus on these first.
Const equals.
And then we have computed.
And then we don't need
the state anymore because it's
inherently going to be reference
task dot value dot length.
That's it for that one.
Then this one's computed.
Yep.
Returns task value reduce
La la la la la bum bum.
Then I think that is covered.
And then a couple more.
Do const 1, 2 equals
computed state.
Whoops, forgot one.
That it goes here.
And then set a state.
Task state dot value task value.
Yep, that takes care of all the getters.
And finally,
luckily actions are actually pretty
easy because they basically are just.
You just need to add
the function in front of it.
I need to update some
of those in a second.
Async function,
function, function,
function and function.
That was a lot to get through.
And so then remember we're back in now
setup world so this no longer exists.
So honestly what I'm going to do, I'm just
going to grab all of the this tasks do and
then we're just going to grab them,
switch them to dot value.
Then what else is erroring out?
This is loading.
Wait, that's not what I wanted.
This error.
That's what I want.
And then this dot value.
Excellent.
This is loading.
And then this is
loading dot value and
I think we're almost done.
I think that.
>> Speaker 2: Final curly bracket.
>> Ben Hong: We have a spare
curly bracket at the very bottom.
Good call.
And then this one.
Nope, doesn't like it.
Okay.
This Update Tasks
just becomes Update Tasks.
No need for that.
Save something so funky.
>> Speaker 2: At the bottom.
>> Ben Hong: This one we don't need.
>> Speaker 3: I don't think
you need an extra one.
>> Speaker 2: You need your
closing bracket, curly or bracket.
>> Speaker 4: Parentheses.
And then bracket, maybe.
>> Speaker 3: Bracket,
parentheses, the end.
>> Ben Hong: Bracket.
Parentheses.
Like this.
Okay.
Beautiful.
Yeah.
Right.
Because we need to close this giant thing,
this loop.
Okay.
Okay, there you go.
That is everything.
Now, the difference also being, right,
we just switched everything over to
Composition API is that then you need
to go ahead and return all the things.
So this is where you have to be explicit
regarding the fact that you're saying task
is loading error.
So now that's that.
And then we have all our getters here.
I'm just moving that in so
I just see them.
Getters.
So we have what?
Task count, Task by status,
task by area, and then unique areas.
Yep.
And then finally exposing all of these.
Let me just collapse them
to be a little bit easier.
Create update, delete.
And then some helper methods.
Okay, let me do that.
Actions, create, update, delete.
I think those are the three.
I missed something.
Update.
No.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Update.
Great.
Finally.
Yep.
I'll need that comma in a second.
And then these last helper methods.
This is a long one.
All right, what do we got?
Get task by id.
Get task by week.
Great.
Get task.
Thank goodness for autocomplete.
And then update task status.
And then update task type.
Why does it duplicate?
This is your setup store.
You can see it's actually
a little verbose just
because you're setting
everything manually now.
That's what you get by
doing the setup store.
But it does mean that kind
of like you're seeing here,
you're able to then group things by, like,
if you want, by their feature pieces.
If you really wanted, for
example, like, unique areas.
This one honestly doesn't
really make a lot of sense.
It's like a meta attribute of tasks.
And so,
if I were like fully refactoring this,
I think this would not probably
live in here because I don't
see why I would want to derive
all unique areas from tasks.
That seems like expensive from
a computation perspective.
But then it's related to
here by task by area.
So it's kind of interesting.
So you get to like,
whereas as we saw with the Options store,
you have to put it in state.
Getters and actions.
That is the order this.
You get to start thinking how
you might want to redo it.
And then, more importantly,
there's nothing stopping you from creating
composables to make this store
just more comprehensible.
I know we talked about composables being
often shared between components, but
if they help to keep your sanity as far
as, like, making your store shorter,
making them easier to understand, that,
to me, is valuable in its own regard.
And so, to me, that's ultimately our goal
as programmers is to build things that
people can easily understand and
then maintain an update.
And so whatever,
by whatever tools you need to do that,
that is what ultimately
I think we should do.